.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH KENOTAPHD 1 "February 2016" "kenotaphd-1.0.0" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
kenotaphd \- detect a presence of a network device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kenotaphd
[OPTIONS]
.B \-t
.I HOSTNAME:PORT
.I config-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kenotaphd
is a tool for detecting a presence of network devices through means of a packet capture. Both Wired and Wireless networks are supported, assuming appropriate hardware is available. Targeted device is identified by a user defined Berkeley Packet Filter, either by its IP address or Hardware address, however the use of BPF allows for higher complexity. A packet capture is done in promiscuous mode, and/or in monitor mode.

.B kenotaphd
is designed to be a 'daemon' program that runs in the background. To communicate with other processes, a TCP/IP socket is opened on a defined
.I PORT
bound to a
.I HOSTNAME
specified as an IP address or as a domain name, latter gets resolved to either IPv4 or IPv6 address. How the domain name gets resolved can be controlled with available options. When a targeted device becomes present on a network, or becomes absent, a notification message is sent to all consumers connected to the socket.

A notification message is an ASCII
.RB ( ascii (7))
formatted string that consists of three fields separated by a white-space character (' ', hex \\x20). The first field contains a name of the event, the second contains an ID, which corresponds to a name of a device rule found in a configuration file, and the third contains a name of a network interface. Whole message is terminated with a newline character ('\\n', hex \\x0A).

Event names are abbreviations of their meaning and are sent thus:

.IP * 3
Event
.I BEG
designates a beginning and is sent after the first packet matching a device's match pattern is captured.
.IP *
Event
.I END
is sent after a device has not been seen, meaning no packets matching a device's match pattern were captured, for a time period exceeding a defined timeout.
.IP *
Event
.I ERR
is sent if a network interface gets into faulty state, after that all subsequent triggers of
.I END
event are cancelled, unless
.I BEG
event is triggered again.
.PP
Be aware, that there is absolutely no guarantee that once a faulty interface will be able to recuperate itself from a faulty state and resume in its action. In most cases, only remedy is to restart the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-4
resolve hostname to IPv4 address
.TP
.B \-6
resolve hostname to IPv6 address
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-hostname="HOSTNAME:PORT
bind socket to
.I HOSTNAME
and
.I PORT
.TP
.B "\-d, \-\-daemon"
run as a daemon
.TP
.BI "\-m, \-\-accept-max="NUM
accept maximum of
.I NUM
concurrent client connections
.TP
.BI "\-P, \-\-pid-file="FILE
create a pid file
.I FILE
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-verbose"
increase verbosity
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
show usage information
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-version"
show version information
.SH BUGS
When capturing a Wireless traffic in monitor mode, only a traffic from the current channel is available. It is not possible to target a specific channel, or do a channel hopping, unless it is done by other means.
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Antagon <antagon@codeward.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kenotaph-sched (1)
